The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
The Wickedness of Judah Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth. For the Lord has spoken: I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against Me;
the ox knows his owner, and the donkey his master’s crib, but Israel does not know; My people do not consider.
Alas, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a brood of evildoers, children who deal corruptly! They have forsaken the Lord, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel to anger, they are estranged and backward.
Why should you be beaten again, that you revolt more and more? The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.
From the sole of the foot even to the head there is no soundness in it. Wounds, bruises, and open sores; they have not been closed, nor bandaged, nor soothed with oil.
Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire; strangers devour your land in your presence; and it is desolate, as overthrown by strangers.
The daughter of Zion is left like a shelter in a vineyard, like a hut in a field of melons, like a besieged city.
Unless the Lord of Hosts had left to us a very small remnant, we would have been as Sodom; we would have been like Gomorrah.
Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom; listen to the law of our God, you people of Gomorrah:
For what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices to Me? says the Lord. I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of fed animals. I do not delight in the blood of bulls, or of lambs, or of male goats.
When you come to appear before Me, who has required this at your hand, to trample My courts?
Bring no more vain offerings; incense is an abomination to Me. New Moons, Sabbaths, and convocations— I cannot bear with evil assemblies.
My soul hates your New Moons and your appointed feasts; they are a burden to Me; I am weary of bearing them.
When you reach out your hands, I will hide My eyes from you; even when you make many prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood.
Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean; put away the evil from your deeds, from before My eyes. Cease to do evil,
learn to do good; seek justice, relieve the oppressed; judge the fatherless, plead for the widow.
Come now, and let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.
If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land;
but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured with the sword; for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it.
The Degenerate City How the faithful city has become a prostitute! She was full of justice; righteousness lodged in her, but now murderers.
Your silver has become dross, your wine mixed with water.
Your princes are rebellious and companions of thieves; everyone loves a bribe and follows after rewards. They do not defend the fatherless, nor does the cause of the widow come before them.
Therefore the Lord, the Lord of Hosts, the Mighty One of Israel, says: Ah, I will get relief from My adversaries, and avenge Myself on My enemies.
And I will turn My hand against you, thoroughly purge away your dross, and take away all your impurities.
I will restore your judges as at the first, and your counselors as at the beginning. Afterward you shall be called the city of righteousness, a faithful town.
Zion shall be redeemed with justice and her converts with righteousness.
But the destruction of the transgressors and sinners shall be together, and those who forsake the Lord shall be consumed.
For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which you have desired, and you shall be humiliated for the gardens that you have chosen.
For you shall be as an oak whose leaf fades, and as a garden that has no water.
The strong shall be as tinder, and his work like a spark; they will both burn together, and no one will quench them.