The oracle of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi.
Israel Preferred to Edom I have loved you, says the Lord. But you say, “How have You loved us?” Was not Esau Jacob’s brother? says the Lord. Yet I have loved Jacob;
but Esau I have hated, and I have made his mountains a desolation and left his inheritance for the jackals of the desert.
Whereas Edom says, “We are impoverished, but we will rebuild the ruins,” thus says the Lord of Hosts: They may build, but I will tear down. They will be called the Wicked Territory, and the people against whom the Lord has indignation forever.
Your eyes will see this, and you will say, “Great is the Lord, beyond the border of Israel!”
Profane Offerings A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I am a father, where is My honor? And if I am a master, where is My fear? says the Lord of Hosts to you, O priests, who despise My name. But you say, “How have we despised Your name?”
You offer defiled food on My altar, but say, “How have we defiled You?” By saying, “The table of the Lord is contemptible.”
When you offer the blind as a sacrifice, is it not evil? When you offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? Offer it now to your governor! Would he be pleased with you, or accept you? says the Lord of Hosts.
But now entreat God’s favor, that He may be gracious to us. With such offerings from your hands, will He accept you favorably? says the Lord of Hosts.
Who is there among you who would shut the doors, that you might not kindle fire on My altar in vain? I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of Hosts, nor will I accept an offering from your hand.
For from the rising of the sun to its setting, My name will be great among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to My name, and a pure offering. For My name will be great among the nations, says the Lord of Hosts.
But you profane it, in that you say, “The table of the Lord is defiled, and its fruit, that is, its food is contemptible.”
You also say, “What a weariness it is,” and you snort at it, says the Lord of Hosts. You bring in what is stolen, the lame, or the sick; thus you bring an offering! Should I accept this from your hand? says the Lord.
But cursed be the deceiver who has in his flock a male, and vows, and yet sacrifices to the Lord what is blemished. For I am a great king, says the Lord of Hosts, and My name is to be feared among the nations.