An oracle for Nineveh, a writing of the vision of Nahum, the Elkoshite.
God’s Anger With Nineveh The Lord is a jealous and avenging God; the Lord avenges and is furious. The Lord takes vengeance on His enemies, and He reserves it for His adversaries;
the Lord is slow to anger and great in power, and the Lord will in no way acquit the guilty. In gale winds and a storm is His way, and clouds are the dust of His feet.
He rebukes and dries up the sea, and He makes waterless all the rivers. Bashan and Carmel wither up, and the sprout of Lebanon wastes away.
The mountains quake before Him, and the hills melt; the land rises up before Him, the earth and everything that dwells on it.
Who can stand before His anger? Who will rise up before His burning wrath? His heat is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken up before Him.
The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of distress; and He knows those who take refuge in Him.
As a flood running forth, He will bring to an end the distress, and He will pursue His adversaries into darkness.
Why do you all scheme against the Lord? He will bring it to an end. It will not rise up a second time.
Because they are like interwoven thorns and as drunkards imbibing, they are consumed like completely dry stubble.
Out of you, O Nineveh, comes one, a worthless counselor, who devises evil against the Lord.
So the Lord says: “Even though they are full and many, they will be cut down, and it will pass away. Even though I have afflicted you, I will no longer afflict you, O Judah;
now I will break apart his yoke from over you, and I will tear apart your bonds.”
The Lord has given a command concerning you: “No longer will your name go forth. I will cut off the carved image and metal image from the house of your gods. I will prepare your grave, for you are despised.”
Look, on the mountains come the feet of him who brings good news, who proclaims peace! Make your feasts, O Judah, and complete your vows. For the wicked one will never again pass through your midst; he is completely cut down.