The Generations From Adam to Abraham Adam, Seth, Enosh;
Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared;
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech;
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
Japhethites The sons of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshek, and Tiras.
The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah.
The sons of Javan were Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittites, and the Rodanites.
Hamites The sons of Ham were Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan.
The sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah, and Sabteka. The sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan.
Cush became the father of Nimrod, who began to be mighty on the earth.
Egypt became the father of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, and Naphtuhites,
Pathrusites, Kasluhites (from whom came the Philistines), and the Caphtorites.
Canaan became the father of Sidon, his firstborn, and Heth
and the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites,
the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites,
the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites.
Semites The sons of Shem were Elam, Ashur, Arphaxad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshek.
Arphaxad became the father of Shelah, and Shelah became the father of Eber.
Two sons were born to Eber: The name of one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided, and the name of his brother was Joktan.
Joktan became the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
Hadoram, Uzal, and Diklah,
Ebal, Abimael, Sheba,
Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,
Eber, Peleg, Reu,
Serug, Nahor, Terah,
and Abram, who is Abraham.
The Generations of Abraham The sons of Abraham were Isaac and Ishmael.
Descendants of Hagar These are their generations: The firstborn of Ishmael was Nebaioth, then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema,
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These were the sons of Ishmael.
Descendants of Keturah The sons of Keturah, Abraham’s concubine: She bore Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. The sons of Jokshan were Sheba and Dedan.
The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanok, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.
Descendants of Sarah Abraham also became the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac were Esau and Israel.
The sons of Esau were Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.
The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek.
The sons of Reuel were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
Descendants of Esau in Edom The sons of Seir were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan.
The sons of Lotan were Hori and Homam; the sister of Lotan was Timna.
The sons of Shobal were Alian, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon were Aiah and Anah.
The son of Anah was Dishon. The sons of Dishon were Hamran, Eshban, Ithran, and Keran.
The sons of Ezer were Bilhan, Zaavan, and Jaakan. The sons of Dishan were Uz and Aran.
These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the children of Israel: Bela the son of Beor (the name of his city was Dinhabah).
When Bela died, Jobab the son of Zerah from Bozrah reigned in his place.
When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
When Husham died, Hadad the son of Bedad, the one who struck Midian in the open field of Moab, reigned in his place (the name of his city was Avith).
When Hadad died, Samlah from Masrekah reigned in his place.
When Samlah died, Shaul from Rehoboth on the River reigned in his place.
When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan the son of Akbor reigned in his place.
When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad reigned in his place (the name of his city was Pai, and the name of his wife was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Me-Zahab).
Then Hadad died. The tribal chiefs of Edom were Chief Timnah, Chief Alvah, Chief Jetheth,
Chief Oholibamah, Chief Elah, Chief Pinon,
Chief Kenaz, Chief Teman, Chief Mibzar,
Chief Magdiel, and Chief Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom.