Salutation Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Paul’s Prayer for the Philippians I thank my God for every reminder of you.
In every prayer of mine for you all, I have always made requests with joy,
due to your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now.
I am confident of this very thing, that He who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Jesus Christ.
It is right for me to think this of you all because I have you in my heart, since both in my imprisonments and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are fellow partakers of my grace.
For God is my witness, how I long after you all with the affection of Jesus Christ.
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all discernment,
that you may approve things that are excellent so that you may be pure and blameless for the day of Christ,
being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which comes through Jesus Christ, for the glory and praise of God.
To Live Is Christ But I want you to know, brothers, that the things which happened to me have resulted in advancing the gospel,
so that my imprisonments in Christ have become known throughout the entire palace guard and to all the rest.
And a great many of the brothers in the Lord, having become confident because of my incarcerations, have dared to speak the word without fear.
Some indeed are preaching Christ out of envy and strife, and some also from good will.
The former preach Christ out of contention, not sincerely, intending to add trouble to my circumstance.
But the latter preach out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel.
What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And in this I rejoice. Indeed, I will rejoice.
For I know that through your prayer and the support of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will result in my deliverance.
Accordingly, it is my earnest expectation and my hope that I shall be ashamed in nothing, but that with all boldness as always, so now also, Christ will be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death.
For to me, to continue living is Christ, and to die is gain.
But if I am to live on in the flesh, this will mean fruitful labor to me. Yet I do not know what I shall choose.
I am in a difficult position between the two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better.
Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh is more needful for your sake.
Having this confidence, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your joyful advancement of the faith,
so that your rejoicing for me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ when I am in your presence again.
Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether or not I come and see you, I may hear of your activities, that you are standing fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel.
Do not be frightened by your adversaries. This is a sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation, and this from God.
For to you it was granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in Him, but also to suffer for His sake,
having the same conflict which you saw in me and now hear is in me.