Salutation Paul, an apostle (not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised Him from the dead),
and all the brothers who are with me, To the churches of Galatia:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
who gave Himself for our sins, that He might deliver us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,
to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.
There Is No Other Gospel I marvel that you are turning away so soon from Him who called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel,
which is not a gospel. But there are some who trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ.
Although if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than the one we have preached to you, let him be accursed.
As we said before, so I say now again: If anyone preaches any other gospel to you than the one you have received, let him be accursed.
For am I now seeking the approval of men or of God? Or am I trying to please men? For if I were still trying to please men, I would not be the servant of Christ.
How Paul Became an Apostle But I reveal to you, brothers, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man.
For I neither received it from man, neither was I taught it, except by a revelation of Jesus Christ.
For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the church of God beyond measure and tried to destroy it,
and progressed in Judaism above many of my equals in my own heritage, being more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of my fathers.
But when it pleased God, who set me apart since I was in my mother’s womb and called me by His grace,
to reveal His Son in me, that I might preach Him among the nations, I did not immediately confer with flesh and blood,
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me. But I went into Arabia, and returned again to Damascus.
After three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter and stayed with him for fifteen days.
I saw none of the other apostles except James, the Lord’s brother.
In what I am writing to you, before God, I do not lie!
Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia
and was unknown by face to the churches of Judea which were in Christ.
They had heard only, “He who persecuted us in times past now preaches the faith which he once destroyed.”
And they glorified God because of me.